[DOCS] User risk score 8.3 (#2178)
elastic/security-docs: docs/experimental-features/user-risk-score.asciidoc

[[user-risk-score]]
== User risk score

NOTE: This feature is available for {stack} versions 8.3.0 and newer.

> The user risk score feature highlights risky usernames from within your environment. It utilizes a transform with a scripted metric aggregation to calculate user risk scores based on alerts  generated within the past 90 days. The transform runs hourly to update the score as new alerts are generated.

Reviewer: A few suggested edits for conciseness:
```suggestion
The user risk score feature highlights risky usernames in your environment. It uses a transform with a scripted metric aggregation to calculate user risk scores based on alerts generated within the past 90 days. The transform runs hourly to update the score as new alerts are generated.
```

Reviewer 2: Should score be plural in the last sentence? The second to last one has the plural version. 
```suggestion
The user risk score feature highlights risky usernames from within your environment. It utilizes a transform with a scripted metric aggregation to calculate user risk scores based on alerts  generated within the past 90 days. The transform runs hourly to update scores as new alerts are generated.
```

Each alert's contribution to the user risk score is based on the alert's risk score (`signal.rule.risk_score`). The risk score is calculated using a weighted sum where rules with higher time-corrected risk scores also have higher weights. Each risk score is normalized on a scale of 0 to 100.

The following table shows how risk levels are applied to a username, based on the normalized risk score:

[width="100%",options="header"]
|==============================================

> |Risk level |Host risk score

Reviewer 3: Replace 'Host' in the table heading with 'User'

|Unknown |< 20
|Low |20-40
|Moderate |40-70
|High     | 70-90
|Critical  | > 90

|==============================================

[discrete]
[[deploy-user-risk-score]]
=== Deploy the user risk score package

> To deploy the user risk score framework in your environment, follow https://github.com/elastic/detection-rules/blob/main/docs/experimental-machine-learning/user-risk-score.md[these steps]. These instructions also include steps to enable the `riskyUsersEnabled` feature flag.

Reviewer: It's a little awkward to mention the feature flag here, then mention it again two paragraphs/notes later. Could all that be combined here? Or maybe remove the second sentence here and keep the 2nd note below, since the note also points to the same instructions?

NOTE: Update user risk score artifacts after you upgrade the {stack}. To do this, download a release bundle that's compatible with the new {stack} version and repeat all the steps referenced above. Failure to do so might cause views in the {security-app} to break.

NOTE: To view user risk score data in the {security-app}, you must https://github.com/elastic/detection-rules/blob/main/docs/experimental-machine-learning/user-risk-score.md#8-enable-kibana-features[enable the `riskyUsersEnabled` feature flag]. However, enabling the feature flag is *not* required to view the Lens dashboards.

[[view-user-risk-score]]
[discrete]
=== View user risk score data

> If the `riskyUsersEnabled` feature flag is enabled:

Reviewer 2: Really not a correction, just a suggestion to change the tone of the sentence a bit.

> If the `riskyUsersEnabled` feature flag is enabled:

Author: This isn't mandatory to enable; hence the conditional statement.

. In the {security-app}, go to *Explore* -> *Users*.
. On the *Users* page, select the *User risk* tab.

> The User risk table shows a list of user names, their assigned risk score, and user risk classification. The table appears in reverse chronological order, with the most recent authenticated user at the top. Select the *User risk classification* menu to filter the table by the classification type.

Reviewer: This topic uses both "username" and "user name," and apparently the style guide prefers one word.
```suggestion
The User risk table shows a list of usernames, their assigned risk scores, and user risk classifications. The table appears in reverse chronological order, with the most recently authenticated user at the top. Select the *User risk classification* menu to filter the table by the classification type.
```

> [role="screenshot"]
> image::images/urs-table.png[User risk score table]
> 
> NOTE: The User risk table is *not* affected by the KQL time range.

Reviewer: This note seems a natural continuation of the paragraph above the image, so I'd have them swap places -- otherwise the image breaks up the flow of info:
```suggestion
NOTE: The User risk table is *not* affected by the KQL time range.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/urs-table.png[User risk score table]
```

> Click a user name to view the user risk details page, which shows how the risk score for that user has changed over time. The *Top risk score contributors* table shows rules with the highest user risk score. Click a rule name to view the rule details page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click a username to view the user risk details page, which shows how the risk score for that user has changed over time. The *Top risk score contributors* table shows rules with the highest user risk score. Click a rule name to view the rule details page.
```

NOTE: The data on this page *is* affected by the KQL time range; therefore, modify the date and time picker to filter your results.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/urs-details-page.png[User risk score details page]

If the `riskyUsersEnabled` feature flag is *not* enabled:

> . In {kib}, go to *Analytics -> Dashboard*.
> . Enter "Risk score" in the search bar.

Reviewer: Possibly combine these steps?
```suggestion
. In {kib}, go to *Analytics -> Dashboard*, then search for "risk score".
```

. Select the *Drilldown of User Risk Score* dashboard.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/select-urs-dashboard.png[Select dashboard]

> Use the histogram to track how the risk score for a particular user has changed over time. To specify a date range, use the date and time picker or drag and select a time range within the histogram. Click *View source dashboard* to view the top values of `user.name` and `risk.keyword`.

Reviewer: A comma might help separate the two possible actions here:
```suggestion
Use the histogram to track how the risk score for a particular user has changed over time. To specify a date range, use the date and time picker, or drag and select a time range within the histogram. Click *View source dashboard* to view the top values of `user.name` and `risk.keyword`.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/urs-histogram.png[User risk score histogram]

> The data tables beneath the histogram display alert counts by users, alert counts by host, and associated MITRE tactics of risky users. The table data is sorted in reverse chronological order by default, with the highest total risk score at the top. Use this information to triage users with the highest risk to your network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data tables beneath the histogram display alert counts by users, alert counts by host, and associated MITRE ATT&CK tactics of risky users. The table data is sorted in reverse chronological order by default, with the highest total risk score at the top. Use this information to triage users with the highest risk in your network.
```
